Add API doc for Google-Symptoms indicator (#273)
cmu-delphi/delphi-epidata: docs/api/covidcast-signals/google-symptoms.md

---
title: Google Symptoms
parent: Data Sources and Signals
grand_parent: COVIDcast API
---

# Google Symptoms
{: .no_toc}

* **Source name:** `google-symptoms`
* **Number of data revisions since 19 May 2020:** 0
* **Date of last change:** Never
* **Available for:** county, MSA, HRR, state (see [geography coding docs](../covidcast_geography.md))

This data source is based on [COVID-19 Search Trends symptoms dataset](https://github.com/google-research/open-covid-19-data/tree/master/data/exports/search_trends_symptoms_dataset). Using this search data, we estimate the volume of searches mapped to symptoms related 

> to COVID-19 such as _anosmia_(lack of smell) and _ageusia_(lack of taste). The resulting daily dataset for each region 
> showing the relative frequency of searches for each symptom.  This signal is measured 
> in arbitrary units that are normalized for population and for the most popular symptom 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
to COVID-19 such as _anosmia_ (lack of smell) and _ageusia_(lack of taste). The resulting daily dataset for each region 
shows the relative frequency of searches for each symptom.  This signal is measured 
in arbitrary units that are normalized for population and for the most popular symptom 
```

search term within a geographic region. Thus, values are not comparable between 

> geographic regions. Larger numbers represent higher numbers of symptom-related 

Reviewer: Is it true that values are not comparable between geographic regions, and you can only use time series in one region? I thought the population normalization was supposed to make them comparable somehow.

If they're not comparable, that's a pretty big caveat, and probably deserves its own paragraph with a bold **Warning** label.

Author: Yes, they are not comparable across regions since they are scaled by regional specific maximum value at a certain time point.

searches.

| Signal | Description |
| --- | --- |
| `anosmia_raw_search` |  Google search volume for anosmia-related searches, in arbitrary units that are normalized for population |
| `anosmia_smoothed_search` | Google search volume for anosmia-related searches, in arbitrary units that are normalized for population, smoothed by 7-day average |
| `ageusia_raw_search` | Google search volume for ageusia-related searches, in arbitrary units that are normalized for population |
| `ageusia_smoothed_search` |  Google search volume for ageusia-related searches, in arbitrary units that are normalized for population, smoothed by 7-day average |
| `combined_symptoms_raw_search` | wait for Roni's decision |
| `combined_symptoms_smoothed_search` | wait for Roni's decision |

## Table of contents
{: .no_toc .text-delta}

1. TOC
{:toc}
## Estimation (for combined_symptoms)
wait for Roni's decision

## Limitation 

> When daily volume in a region does not meet quality or privacy thresholds, set by Google, the value
> is assigned a NaN and will not be reported. Since Google uses differential privacy, there is artificial 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When daily volume in a region does not meet quality or privacy thresholds, set by Google, no value
will be reported. Since Google uses differential privacy, there is artificial 
```

noise added to the raw datasets to avoid identifying any individual persons without affecting the quality 
of results. 

The data is normalized by the total number of Search users in certain regions for 
a certain time period and is scaled considering the maximum value of the normalized
popularity across the entire published time range for that region over all symptoms. So, 
most of the values should be in the range 0-1. However, since the scaling factor is calculated 
and stored at a certain time point, the symptom popularity released after that time point is 
likely to exceed the previously-observed maximum value which results in values larger than 1.

The data volume is calculated based on search queries. A single search query can be mapped to more 

> than one symptoms. Currently, Google does not provide _intersection/union_ data. Users should be careful
> when dealing with more than one symptoms. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
than one symptom. Currently, Google does not provide _intersection/union_ data. Users should be careful
when dealing with more than one symptom. 
```

## Geographical Aggregation
The state-level and county-level `raw_search` signals for specific symptoms such as _anosmia_ and _ageusia_ are taken directly from the [COVID-19 Search Trends symptoms dataset](https://github.com/google-research/open-covid-19-data/tree/master/data/exports/search_trends_symptoms_dataset) without changes.  We aggregate the county level data to the MSA and HRR levels using population weighted average. For MSAs/HRRs with part of the counties with no data provided due to quality of privacy issue for a certain day, we simply assume the values to be 0 during aggregation. The values for MSAs/HRRs with no counties having non-NaN values will not be reported. Thus, the resulting MSA/HRR level data does not fully match the _actual_ MSA/HRR level data (which we are not provided).

## Lag and Backfill

> Google does not update the search data daily, but has an uncertain update frequency. The delay can range from 1 day to 10 days or even more. We check for updates everyday and provide the most update-to-date data.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Google does not update the search data daily, but has an uncertain update frequency. The delay can range from 1 day to 10 days or even more. We check for updates everyday and provide the most up-to-date data.
```
